# nw_SEIR: SEIR epidemic on temporal network data

This project simulates a influenza-like (SEIR) epidemic on a real temporal network in python. 
As such outbreaks often spread between individuals, network theory can be used for the mathematical representation of the connections and contact patterns between humans (which are represented as nodes) to include important effects of social networks. In this project, we investigate the use of a temporally resolved network dataset of primary school children's contact patterns to model an influenza-like (SEIR) outbreak in a school. We partly reproduce and analyse results of a publication which investigates different simulated interventions to prevent outbreaks [http://www.sociopatterns.org/publications/targeted-class-closure/]. Next,  we apply the idea of an effective distance measure between nodes  which was applied in a publication on the spread of SARS and H1N1 virus on global airport flux data [http://science.sciencemag.org/content/342/6164/1337.figures-only]. We construct these effective distances between the individuals and analyze these with regard to a predicted date of infection. 

# Data

We use real contact data of primary school children in France over a two day period. The data is freely available and is provided by the SocioPatterns Collaboration [http://www.sociopatterns.org/]. The data has a 20 second time resolution of anonymised face-to-face contacts between pupils and teachers. Contacts lasting over 20 seconds are recorded by the RFID infrastructure when the two sensors are in proximity (between 1-1.5m). Of the 242 children, 232 and all 10 teachers have participated in the study. Further details of the methodology and the data usage consent can be found in the first publication of the data [http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0023176]. In order to reduce computing time, we have aggregated the contact data into 20min windows.

# Methods
## SEIR model

We use the same model and parameters as in  \citep{Gemmetto2014}, as they are used to represent typical influenza infections. This means we have a model where an individual (child or teacher) is in one of 5 epidemic compartments: $S$, meaning that the individual is healthy and susceptible to the disease. Class $E$, meaning they are exposed and will develop the disease in $\mu^{-1}=2$ days. After $\mu^{-1}$ days (which is also called the incubation period) the individual will develop symptoms with probability $1-p_\mathrm{a}=0.7$ or be asymptomatic but infectious. This yields two $I$ classes, $I_{\mathrm{sym}}, I_{\mathrm{asym}}$. In either case, a susceptible can be infected with rate $\beta= 3.5 \cdot 10^{-4}s^{-1} (\beta^{-1}\approx 48$min) and with $\beta/2$ if in contact with an asymptomatic infected during contacts. The infected recover from the disease in $\gamma^{-1}=4$ days. For every infected individual, $\mu^{-1}$ and $\gamma^{-1}$ are chosen by random from a Gaussian distribution with the standard deviation equal to a tenth of their average value. An individual can also get infected with a constant rate of $\beta_{\mathrm{com}}=2.8 \cdot 10^{-9}s^{-1}$ corresponding to the risk of infection from the community outside school. Furthermore, closure of a whole grade has been simulated as an intervention against an large outbreak. This targeted grade closure has been simulated with threshold value of $\theta=3$ infected children in one grade and a subsequent closure period of $4$ days. After $\theta$ is exceeded, the grade is immediately closed during school hours. This means that individuals in this grade stay home and do not interact with other individuals during the closure period. Targeted grade closure is not applicable for the teachers. After the infection, the individual will be recovered and immune, corresponding to the $R$ class.

## Effective Distance

# Results
